SOURCE: https://www.eurogamer.net/r-champman-x
TITLE: Championship Manager Season 01/02 review | Eurogamer.netEurogamer.net

Championship Manager Season 01/02 review | Eurogamer.net 

If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. Read our editorial policy . 

Formations aren't just for show 
Anything you can do I can do… 

When you think about football management simulations, which game 
 comes to mind first? Championship Manager. There's no disputing the 
 fact that it's the genre's pinnacle, the very bastion of footy 
 management games, and with each new release it gets even better. 
 The other day we talked about accurate player statistics in Pro 
 Evolution Soccer, but Championship Manger is so thoroughly 
 researched that even in small-print the list of contributors is 
 longer than my arm, and the results it produces are respected not 
 only by fans of the game but fans of the sport. 

There are 26 leagues from around the world, and detailed profiles 
 and histories of the more than 100,000 players, managers and 
 coaches that take part in them, and it's into this accurately 
 simulated worldwide sporting industry that you are thrust. Your 
 position as manager allows you to bicker over transfers, tussle 
 with the press and the club's board, and marshal your players as 
 much or as little as you want, delegating aspects of management and 
 coaching to your second in command, or just taking full control and 
 responsibility, giving players individual marking jobs, changing 
 tactics at half time to try and overcome a one goal deficit and 
 resting those vital players during quiet games. 

There's no such thing as Game Over, so long as the board is 
 confident in you and the players and fans aren't calling for your 
 head on a stick. Thus the fact that some seasons end in triumph and 
 others in dismal failure is fairly unimportant. You are guiding a 
 team of your choice and your decisions make the difference, and 
 they do so realistically. 

It's not just the big teams... 
Change of scenery 

The game's transition to Xbox has been relatively painless. In 
 fact, there are only two major changes to the CM formula in this 
 Xbox incarnation - the number of leagues you can run concurrently, 
 and the interface. The limitations of processing power require that 
 you manage a maximum of three teams in different leagues during a 
 season, whereas PC owning gluttons for punishment can do the full 
 26. But how many of you honestly want to manage that many teams? It 
 was an option there for completion's sake more than anything else, 
 with most high-spec PCs struggling to do a good job of it in the 
 first place. Nope, that's not a problem. 

The other big change has been to the interface. In the absence of 
 a mouse, the cursor is controlled with the analogue stick, or you 
 can switch directly between menu options using the directional pad. 
 In the absence of a keyboard, you can't edit the stats of the 
 players in the game, but they're so accurate that we can't imagine 
 many reasons to do so besides cheating... Other than that, this is 
 to all intents and purposes Championship Manager Season 01/02. 
 Although some early Xbox reviews this year highlighted a slowdown 
 problem, there is no evidence of this in the release version of the 
 game, and the developer tells us that it was because of a bug - the 
 very bug that subsequently held up the game's release. 

It may not differ much in terms of composition then, but how about 
 timing? One of our only worries was that arriving just a few weeks 
 prior to the end of the season, it might seem a little outdated. 
 Most fans of the game have stories to tell about how closely it 
 imitates real life, and if you play through to the end of the 
 2001-2002 season - and if you buy this it will be something you 
 find it very difficult to pull yourself away from doing - the 
 reality of the situation you face will dawn on you. It's almost 
 spooky the way that the real life Premiership managers yank the 
 same players from the same foreign clubs as they do in the game. A 
 powerful message, too. As you would expect, all the latest 
 competitions (including B-team and Under 21 team competitions), 
 awards, transfer and disciplinary rules (not to mention fines and 
 appeal processes) for the last season are included in the game, 
 just as they were with the PC version, along with the recent EU 
 regulated transfer system. The wage structure is practically 
 perfect, and the role of players' attitudes, personalities and 
 opinions is naturally important, along with those of the national 
 and local media. 

Conclusion 

So it's thoroughly accurate, an excellent port of a game which was 
 already excellent to begin with, and the only debate is whether or 
 not you should buy this instead of or as well as the PC version. 
 For me, sitting on the comfy sofa downstairs is infinitely 
 preferable to burrowing into my PC hobby hole for hours at a time. 
 Some people are so fanatical about CM that they buy stupidly 
 expensive PCs just to play it; now you can buy a relatively 
 inexpensive console and get the same experience. 

9 / 10