SOURCE: https://footballwhispers.com/blog/cm-01-02-best-tactics-and-players/
TITLE: CM 01/02 Best tactics and players: MVP Madeira still the GOAT

CM 01/02 Best tactics and players: MVP Madeira still the GOAT 

CM 01/02 Best tactics and players: MVP Madeira still the GOAT 

18+ | Commercial Content #ad | T&Cs apply | gambleaware.org 

CM 01/02, as the 2001 edition of Championship Manager is referred to, hit the stores back in the October of that year and allowed players to take control of clubs from 27 countries across the globe. 

This game introduced the EU regulated transfer system for the first time in the series. It also included ‘attribute masking' for the very first time, though fans are split over that particular one. And with the Japan/Korea World Cup just around the corner, the K-League in South Korea became a very topical part of the CM experience. 

Overall, CM 01/02 sold over 300k copies in the UK alone. It is still, amazingly, being played today by hardcore fans, and CM fan James Kelbrick has provided a guide to the game's best players and formations. 

Contents 

1 CM 01/02 best formation 

2 CM 01/02 best players: Our top 10 

3 The Future is CM 01/02 

CM 01/02 best formation 

Such is the unending popularity of this title, modders even create an updated database for this now-ancient game, with its easiness to master and the presence of ‘cheat players' being amongst the biggest pull factors. 

When these are combined with the ultimate formation, success is virtually guaranteed every time. Specifically, this was the 4-1-3-2 formation, which grants almost Ranieri-like powers to turn misfits into megastars. 

There is always a way to get some easy wins when playing football manager simulators, and the likes of more modern titles like FM24 are no different. But it was not long after the release of CM 01/02 that players began to realise just how powerful this particular formation was. 

On CM 01/02, the 4-1-3-2 formation is located at the very bottom of the formations list within the tactics screen. Whilst your team might not keep a lot of clean sheets using this very aggressive and attacking tactic, it would score plenty of goals. 

If you had the right players, it would invariably provide the basis for a very successful save. The set instructions with this tactic were (and still are!) as follows… 

Mentality : Normal 

Passing : Short 

Tackling : Hard 

Pressing : Yes 

Offside Trap : No 

Counter Attack : No 

Men Behind Ball : No 

Due to the high amount of red cards you get when playing with these standard settings, many players opted to lower the tackling to ‘normal' and often increased the mentality to ‘attacking' to keep their team on the front foot. 

There were plenty of other formations in the game that could bring you success, as well as ones you could create yourself, but none really compared to the 4-1-3-2. 
Maxim Tsigalko's real-life career was unremarkable, but he becomes a beast within three years on just about any CM 01/02 save. 
CM 01/02 best players: Our top 10 

10. Leo Bing 

This top 10 starts off with a Norwegian that could play in every outfield position and was stacked with 20s. The only drawback is that he was likely a regen, given that he has zero online presence. But if he does appear, get him ! 

9. Mark Kerr 

Kerr is a creative midfielder who you can sign from Falkirk for a nominal fee. Despite being one of the cheap players, he creates many goals and helps keep possession for your side during some very tense moments. 

7= Tonton Zola Moukoko and Cherno Samba 

Moukoko and Samba are two very young players in England at the start of the game that have tons of potential and have become CM 01/02 legends amongst the community. 

6. Ibrahim Said 

In terms of adding a ball winner into your side, you need look no further than Said. The young Egyptian DM pops up with the odd goal but his true skill is breaking up opponents attacks and allowing the three creative midfielders ahead of him take all the glory. 

5. Franco Costanzo 

If you are searching for a young goalkeeper that can be the best in the world, then Costanzo is up there amongst the greatest hidden gems. The young Argentine shot-stopper plays for River Plate and already has a bunch of 20s in his stats when you start your save. 

4. Isaac Okoronkwo 

If you need a RB, LB or CB then Okoronkwo is your man! The Shakhtar defender can play anywhere across the backline and is either footed. He is a Nigerian international and you can sign him for around £1m and his performances will never drop below a 7/10, Mr Consistency. 

3. Maxim Tsigalko 

Tsigalko, or Maksim Tsyhalka as he is actually called, is one of the best strikers in CM 01/02. Tsigalko is 18 when you begin your save and, due to his lack of international caps for Belarus, he can be tricky to sign for a Premier League club. 

But if you can bring him in he will guarantee goals and develop very quickly. Sadly, he passed away in 2020, but his mark on CM 01/02 players will always be remembered. 
Kennedy Bakircioglu is a true midfield ace, but he does not take the crown here. 
2. Kennedy Bakircioglu 

Bakircioglu could play CM/RW/AM/FC but in the tried and tested 4-1-3-2, I enjoyed using him as a CM as he scored plenty of goals and created even more, and he eventually develops into one of the best midfielders in the game. 

1. To Madeira 

The only player I would actually consider a true ‘cheat' player is Portugal's own To Madeira . The reason for this is that Madeira was created by one of the game's scouts, and has never existed in real life. 

This 22-year-old striker is available at the start of each save for a small fee and will score you goals at whatever level he plays at. 

The Future is CM 01/02 

We mentioned ‘modders' at the very start of this piece. Indeed, there is still a large community that plays CM 01/02 for sheer joy and nostalgia. You can find these very friendly and helpful fans of the game online, along with loads of databases that are continuously updated every year. You can find all the below modded databases on the champman0102 forums. 

October 2023 Database 

This update does exactly what it says on the tin, adding the 2023/2024 season to CM 01/02. The database includes up-to-date squads, transfers, and player stats, including a few tweaks to players for realism. The update brings in modern titans like Manchester City and PSG, with the latest star signings like Erling Haaland and Kylian Mbappe. 

October 2024 Database 

Following on from this, you guessed it, the 2024/2025 season also came to CM 01/02. 

December 2025 Database 

The latest database for the 2025/26 season was meant to be released in October 2025, but was delayed until December. Still, CM 01/02 fans can now play the most updated version on the game, with marquee summer signings like Alexander Isak and Eberechi Eze moving to their respective new clubs. 

Season 93/94 Database 

This retro database takes you back to the 1993/94 season, an iconic era in football. You can manage legendary teams like AC Milan under Fabio Capello and Sir Alex Ferguson's Manchester United. The main appeal here is that players can manage some of the most iconic players to ever grace modern football. Some of said iconic players include Roberto Baggio, Marco van Basten, Alan Shearer and Eric Cantona. 

Season 89/90 Database 

The 89/90 update for CM 01/02 is a popular retro database that lets players manage teams from the 1989/90 season. It features all four English divisions, and includes teams from other major leagues like Argentina and Brazil, with enhanced player stats for more realism. This database brings back football legends like Maradona and Gullit, and offers a unique throwback experience compared to the modern database updates which tend to focus on “just retired” players. 

Adam Clancy 
Adam is a lead writer on Football Whispers. He is a big Arsenal fan, and also follows his local club Wealdstone, made famous by The Wealdstone Raider, who he has interviewed. Adam also follows darts, boxing, cricket and tennis, among many other sports. 

Related articles 

How to build a 5-star coaching team on Football Manager 

Best Tactics in FM 24: How to get a 96% win rate with the 'Death Star' formation 

Best assistant managers FM 23: Our top 5 

Best Assistant Managers FM 2024: Our Top 5 

Football Manager top tips: The best FM24 training schedules 

Maxim Tsigalko CM 01/02: A tribute to the original 'cheat player'