SOURCE: https://championshipmanagertherevival.wordpress.com/
TITLE: Championship Manager – The Revival | Championship Manager 01-02 Content

Championship Manager – The Revival | Championship Manager 01-02 Content 

Previous Episode: 

Before starting Episode Two: Man Utd – Journey to Greatness , If you missed the previous episode , check it out here . Also, if you haven’t familiarised yourself with the Introduction , give that a read too. It will offer all the information regarding Tactics , Training , and Patches I’m using for this Man Utd Journey . 
Continue reading → 

Acquiring Backroom Staff: 

If you are acquiring Backroom Staff in Championship Manager 01-02 , there are a lot of considerations to make. I hope this guide will clarify the value of attributes , the best attributes per staff role , and the importance of uncapping attributes . 
Continue reading → 

Episode One: Man Utd – Journey to Greatness: 

Welcome to episode one: Man Utd – Journey to Greatness . I will be detailing my career as manager of Manchester United in the video game Championship Manager 01-02 . I hope you can follow along with my career and maybe take some inspiration and apply it to your managerial career. 
Continue reading → 

Introduction: 

Hello and welcome to the introduction of my brand new Manchester United save, Man Utd – Journey to Greatness . I aim to see how I can keep Man United at the top of English football and dominate European and World football . 

I’ve created this post so you, the reader, can see the settings I’m using, Databases , Patches , and Nick’s Patcher settings . 
Continue reading → 

Tactic: 4-1-3-2 Attack (NWW) 

Today’s tactic is regarding my Attacking 4-1-3-2 (NWW) , which I’ve been using against weaker teams, or during matches where I need to make up a one-goal deficit. 

I want to take this opportunity to remind you this tactic is for Championship Manager 01-02 and the patch 3.9.68 database . It’s also a no wibwob ( NWW ) tactic to prevent manipulating the match engine. 
Continue reading → 

Set Pieces: 

In this section, we’ll highlight set pieces and what you can do to improve your chances of making them count. We’ll look at the best players in your team to be assigned Free-kick , Corner , and Penalty takers. 
Continue reading → 

Tactic: 4-1-3-1-1 Normal (NWW) 

Today’s tactic is my Normal 4-1-3-1-1 tactic (NWW) , which has proven to be very good, especially against difficult sides at home, and reasonably good teams away. It’s ideal to have several different tactics/player instructions, so you can quickly adjust as the game plays out, or as I’m sure you’ve experienced, as the AI tries to trip you up! 

I want to remind you that this tactic is based on the Championship Manager 01-02 patch 3.9.68 and is a no wibwob ( NWW ) tactic. I have embedded a video within this blog that you can view, highlighting my tactic and all the Team and Player instructions . 
Continue reading → 

Training Schedules: 

We’ve all been there, bought the best hot prospects, and struggled to get them to achieve their potential. So, I’ve created this training guide, including seven training schedules that I use for Championship Manager 01-02 ( Patch 3.9.68 ). These schedules help train my players and increase their attributes, so players have a greater chance to reach their potential. 

I have added screenshots if you want to copy the schedules and incorporate them into your save (journey). 

If you have any questions, drop me a message in the comments below. 
Continue reading → 

Premier Division Financial Information: 

For those considering a new save (journey), here’s a run-down of the club’s finances within the English Premier Division . As a reminder, this data is based on the 3.9.68 Data update . 

Please also consider checking out my recommendations on who to manage and maybe (unless you support them) who not to manage. These suggestions are based on the first season. These recommendations are considered on the strength of the squad, the club’s finances, and, more importantly, the board’s expectations for the season. 
Continue reading → 

Official Editor: 

An Official Editor is a powerful tool that can load a database and show you every piece of information within the game. Be warned; you can lose an afternoon or even days lost in the detail of Championship Manager . 

Checking out the Editor gives you a glimpse into the work the CM01-02 community undertakes in keeping the game up-to-date. I think you’ll agree they do a fantastic job! 
Continue reading → 

Twitter 

YouTube 
Follow Championship Manager – The Revival on WordPress.com 

Donations 

If you enjoy the content on offer and want to help towards the purchase of a cup of coffee, feel free to donate via Paypal!

Please only consider donating, if you can afford to.

All donations are non-refundable. 

$1.00 
Click here to purchase. 
Training 

Tactic: 4-1-3-2 Attack (NWW) 

Acquiring Backroom Staff 

Downloading & Installing Championship Manager 01-02 

The Starter Kit 

Tactic: 4-1-3-1-1 Normal (NWW) 

Premier Division Clubs (English) 

Set Pieces 

Episode Two: Man Utd - Journey to Greatness 

About Me 

Subscribe Subscribed 

Championship Manager - The Revival 

Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. 

Privacy 

Championship Manager - The Revival 

Subscribe Subscribed 

Sign up 

Log in 

Report this content 

View site in Reader 

Manage subscriptions 

Collapse this bar 

Loading Comments...